# TFM_DATA_SCIENCE_2020_21_GRUPO_1_GCNN_EN

**Introduction**

Epilepsy is interpreted as a neurological disorder characterized by the occurrences of seizures, due to abnormally excessive or synchronous neuronal activity in the brain. Very importantly, the main features of epilepsy, epileptic seizures, are associated with several negative consequences at both short- and long-term, including the risk of falls and injuries, psychiatric disturbances, cognitive deficits, difficulties in achieving academic, social and employment goals, and eventually death. Treatment options for epilepsy are pharmacological and surgical.

However, antiepileptic drugs have limitations and fail to control seizures in roughly 30% of patients, while surgery is not always an option. In this context, an important issue is the possibility of predicting/detecting the occurrences of epileptic seizures (i.e., detecting a preictal or preseizure state) in order to take actions to neutralize an incoming seizure or limit the injuries (e.g., by warning alarms, applying shortacting drugs, activating stimulating devices).

To carry out the study, we will use the electroencephalograms (EEGs) of patients with epilepsy that experience seizures during recording of the EEG. Electroencephalography is a clinical test that is responsible for recording the electric field produced by pyramidal neurons in the brain, resulting in records of brain activity over time. An EEG consists of several electrodes distributed over the head of the patient, so that each of these electrodes will provide a time series that contains the information of the brain activity of a specific region of the brain. Among the properties of this technique, it is worth mentioning that it is a non-invasive technique for the patient, of rapid execution, high reproducibility, high temporal resolution and low cost in comparison with other tests commonly used in the field of neurology. However, these advantages are eclipsed by the characteristics of the EEG signals, these are, stochasticity and high noise level. Conventional EEG analysis techniques involve artifact cleaning and noise level minimization processes, along with complex statistical analyzes to obtain the desired information. However, Deep Learning techniques have proven to be powerful enough to be able to bypass the preprocessing of EEG signals and obtain results with high precision and efficiency.

In this project we will use Graph Convolutional Neural Networks (GCNN or GCN), a new technique to obtain results in graph structured data. This model allows classification problems at graph level and at node level. Therefore, in a first step, the binary classification problem (Preictal-interictal) will be covered, to later rethink the model at node (electrode) level and look for the characteristic patterns of the disease different areas of the brain. For this, the EEGraph Python library will be used, which oversees modeling the EEGs as graphs, which will be then introduced to the model trough Stellargraph which as is a Python library for machine learning on graphs and networks.

